\chapter{Introduction} \label{ch:introduction}

With the rapid development of knowledge and technology, optimization
techniques are widely applied in various fields, such as curve fitting
and parameter tuning.  Generally speaking, optimization is the selection
of a best solution (with regard to some criteria) from a set of
available candidate solutions.  In this thesis, we focused on
real-valued function optimization, which stands for minimizing or
maximizing an objective function value.

In our work, we consider real-valued problems as black-box problems.
This means we have no information about the internal structure of the
objective function including analytic form, gradient, etc.  Under this
unknown problem structure, we focused on finding closest solution to the
optimal one rather than finding the optimum.

Evolution strategy (ES) is derived from evolution algorithms and
commonly applied to black-box optimization problems in continuous
domain; covariance matrix adaptation evolution strategy (CMA-ES) is a
famous one of ES family.  Covariance matrix is applied by CMA-ES for
representing current distribution and self-adapted in the end of each
iteration.  In contrast to other methods, CMA-ES takes fewer assumptions
on the nature of objective functions since this method only uses
information of ranking for learning and adapting; even function values
of candidate solutions are not used by the method.

Unfortunately, CMA-ES faces difficulty on problems of real-valued
function optimization. Due to several properties of black-box problem,
multi-modality and uncertainty for example, CMA-ES converges to local
optima with high probability. For uni-modal problems, CMA-ES is famous
for ability of \emph{exploitation}, but this property makes CMA-ES
easily mislead by multi-modal problems.  In order to make CMA-ES more
feasible on multi-modal problems, this thesis made some modification on
it.

Our work relied on the hypothesis that we can assume that there are
multiple local optima when solving a multi-modal problem.
%The ability of exploitation makes CMA-ES quickly converge to one of
%local optima.
Also, we assume that the information of global optimum is hidden among
local optima.  In other words, there is a hidden relationship between
local optima and global optimum.  According to the assumptions, we
evolve the population consisting of local optima in order to fetch the
hill where global optimum exists.  By applying this 2-layers CMA-ES
procedure, the modified CMA-ES is expected to improve the ability of
exploration, and this is just what we lay concentration on.

Here is the organization of the following chapters: in the next section,
definition and analysis of real-valued function optimization along with
test problems of our work are presented, approaches for real-valued
function optimization are introduced in Chapter 2.  The background of
this work is introduced in Chapter~\ref{ch:real-valued function
optimization}. Our methodology and related work are introduced in
Chapter~\ref{ch:method}. Experiment settings and results are introduced
in Chapter~\ref{ch:experiment}.
Conclusion is given in Chapter~\ref{ch:conclusion}. 

